NIAD-860: documentation update (#80)
nhsconnect/integration-adaptor-lab-results: README.md

The main objective of the Lab Results Adaptor is to hide complex legacy standards and instead present a simple and consistent interface aligned to current NHSD national standards. The adaptor removes the requirement for a GP System to handle the complexities of EDIFACT and MESH messaging.

> At a high level, the Lab Results Adaptor exposes a queue (AMQP 1.0) from which the GP System can consume Pathology and Screening medical reports in FHIR DSTU3 format.

Reviewer: Why is this version written as "DSTU3"? I see on http://hl7.org/fhir/stu3/ the version is written as "STU 3". Also should we be more clear and say `FHIR v3.0.2 (STU 3) format`?

> At a high level, the Lab Results Adaptor exposes a queue (AMQP 1.0) from which the GP System can consume Pathology and Screening medical reports in FHIR DSTU3 format.

Reviewer 2: Should we add links for "AMQP 1.0" and "FHIR DSTU3"?

See the [Resources](#resources) section for links to the underlying services and standards. 

> Adaptor handles following types of EDIFACT messages:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Adaptor handles the following types of EDIFACT messages:
```

> Adaptor handles following types of EDIFACT messages:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Adaptor handles the following types of EDIFACT messages:
```

- Pathology `NHS003`
- Screening `NHS004`

> and replies with `NHS001` (NHSACK) if requested

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and replies with an `NHS001` (NHSACK) message if requested.
```

## Architecture

![Adaptor Component Diagram](/documentation/lab_results_diagram.png)
![Adaptor Sequence Diagram](/documentation/lab_results_sequence_diagram.png)

Adaptor downloads EDIFACT messages from MESH mailbox (`PATH_MEDRPT_V3` and `SCRN_BCS_MEDRPT_V4` MESH workflows) using MESH Client component and puts them on an internal `Inbound MESH Queue`. The Message Translator component fetches messages off the queue, translates the EDIFACT into FHIR format and puts the result onto the `Outbound GP Queue` where other GP Supplier apps can consume medical reports from.

> In the end, if EDIFACT Interchange Header requested such, an NHSACK confirmation is sent back to the labtoraty MESH mailbox.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the end, if the EDIFACT Interchange Header has requested such, an NHSACK confirmation will be sent back to the laboratory MESH mailbox.
```

> In the end, if EDIFACT Interchange Header requested such, an NHSACK confirmation is sent back to the labtoraty MESH mailbox.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In the end, if the EDIFACT Interchange Header requested such, an NHSACK confirmation is sent back to the laboratory MESH mailbox.
```

> In the end, if the EDIFACT Interchange Header has requested such, an NHSACK confirmation will be sent back to the laboratory MESH mailbox.

Reviewer: "will be sent back to the laboratory **receiver** MESH mailbox"

### Performance

> Adaptor's EDIFACT to FHIR translation steps are built for high performance and resiliency by applying horizontal scaling technique. However, the MESH consumer step performance cannot be increased this way. Due to the nature of MESH, if there are multiple adaptor instances, only one randomly chosen will download messages and put them on the `Inbound MESH Queue`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Adaptor's EDIFACT to FHIR translation steps are built for high performance and resiliency by applying horizontal scaling techniques. However, the MESH consumer's step performance cannot be increased this way. Due to the nature of MESH, if there are multiple adaptor instances, only one randomly chosen instance will download messages and put them on the `Inbound MESH Queue`.
```

### Message processing and error handling

> When an EDIFACT message is downloaded from MESH using the MESH Client component, it's structure is not verified at this step. The message is stored on the internal `Inbound MESH Queue` and MESH is instructed that the file can be deleted since the message has been successfully downloaded.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When an EDIFACT message is downloaded from MESH using the MESH Client component, the structure of the message is not verified at this step. The message is stored on the internal `Inbound MESH Queue` and MESH is instructed that the file can be deleted since the message has been successfully downloaded.
```

> When an EDIFACT message is downloaded from MESH using the MESH Client component, it's structure is not verified at this step. The message is stored on the internal `Inbound MESH Queue` and MESH is instructed that the file can be deleted since the message has been successfully downloaded.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When an EDIFACT message is downloaded from MESH using the MESH Client component, its structure is not verified at this stage. The message is stored on the internal `Inbound MESH Queue` and MESH is instructed that the file can be deleted since the message has been successfully downloaded.
```

> When an EDIFACT message is downloaded from MESH using the MESH Client component, it's structure is not verified at this step. The message is stored on the internal `Inbound MESH Queue` and MESH is instructed that the file can be deleted since the message has been successfully downloaded.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When an EDIFACT message is downloaded from MESH using the MESH Client component, its structure is not verified at this step. The message is stored on the internal `Inbound MESH Queue` and MESH is instructed that the file can be deleted since the message has been successfully downloaded.
```

Two error scenarios are possible at this stage:

> - message has been downloaded but the adaptor was unable to put it on the `Inbound MESH Queue`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Message has been downloaded but the adaptor was unable to put it on the `Inbound MESH Queue`
```

>     Message has not been put on the queue, nor MESH has been instructed to delete it. Apart from error log entry, there is no side effect. Operation is retried on next MESH scan cycle.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Message has not been put on the queue, nor has MESH been instructed to delete it. Apart from an error log entry, there is no side effect. The operation is retried on next MESH scan cycle.
```

Reviewer: "The operation is retried on **the** next MESH scan cycle."

> - message has been downloaded and placed on `Inbound MESH Queue` but an error occurred while notifying MESH that message can be deleted

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Message has been downloaded and placed on `Inbound MESH Queue` but an error occurred while notifying MESH that the message can be deleted
```

> - message has been downloaded and placed on `Inbound MESH Queue` but an error occurred while notifying MESH that message can be deleted

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- message has been downloaded and placed on `Inbound MESH Queue` but an error occurred while notifying MESH that the message can be deleted
```

>     Message has been put on the queue but MESH has not been instructed to delete it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Message has been put on the queue, but MESH has not been instructed to delete it.
```

>     Apart from error log entry, since the message has not been deleted from MESH, it will be fetched again on next MESH scan cycle. Since the message has been already put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates is been described in the  [duplicates](#duplicates) section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Apart from error log entry, since the message has not been deleted from MESH, it will be fetched again on next MESH scan cycle. Since the message has been already put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates is described in the  [duplicates](#duplicates) section.
```

>     Apart from error log entry, since the message has not been deleted from MESH, it will be fetched again on next MESH scan cycle. Since the message has been already put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates is described in the  [duplicates](#duplicates) section.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Apart from error log entry, since the message has not been deleted from MESH, it will be fetched again on next MESH scan cycle. Since the message has been already put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates is described in the [duplicates](#duplicates) section.
```

>     Apart from error log entry, since the message has not been deleted from MESH, it will be fetched again on next MESH scan cycle. Since the message has been already put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates is described in the  [duplicates](#duplicates) section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    There are no side effects apart from error log entry. The message has not been deleted from MESH, so it will be fetched again on the next MESH scan cycle. Since the message has already been put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates is described in the  [duplicates](#duplicates) section.
```

> Once the message is on the `Inbound MESH Queue` the Message Translator component picks each one up and performs following steps:

Reviewer: "and performs **the** following steps"

1) Initial verification

>     This step parses the EDIFACT message and verifies general structure of the message and can result in two types of errors:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    This step parses the EDIFACT message and verifies the general structure of the message and can result in two types of errors:
```

    - Interchange Header (UNB) is missing mandatory fields (sender, recipient, sequence number, NHSACK request flag).

        Since the header can't be parsed, an NHSACK can't be produced to inform the laboratory about the error. This is a critical error and manual intervention is required. Message is rejected causing it to be placed back on the `Inbound MESH Queue`. It is picked up again for retry until the MQ max retry value is reached. After that, message is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required.
    - Interchange Trailer (UNZ) message count or Message Header (UNH) or Message Trailer (UNT) can't be parsed.

>         Since the Interchange Header was parsed, all the information required to produce an NHSACK is available. If Interchange Header has the NHSACK request flag set, an NHSACK is produced and sent back to the laboratory MESH mailbox.

Reviewer: "sent back to the laboratory **receiver** MESH mailbox"

2) Translation

>     At this step EDIFACT has already beebn parsed and split into messages. Each message is translated into FHIR Bundle. Any error occurring at this step, is logged and if NHSACK is requested, a proper information is set in it. Because of the error, no FHIR Bundle is created for that single message. Other messages are not affected and can still be processed. At the end of this step, a summary NHSACK is generated containing information about all the successes and failures of EDIFACT messages processing.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    At this step an EDIFACT has already been parsed and split into messages. Each message is translated into a FHIR Bundle. Any error occurring at this step, is logged and if an NHSACK is requested, appropriate information is set in it. Because of the error, no FHIR Bundle is created for that single message. Other messages are not affected and can still be processed. At the end of this step, a summary NHSACK is generated containing information about all the successes and failures of EDIFACT messages processing.
```

>     At this step EDIFACT has already beebn parsed and split into messages. Each message is translated into FHIR Bundle. Any error occurring at this step, is logged and if NHSACK is requested, a proper information is set in it. Because of the error, no FHIR Bundle is created for that single message. Other messages are not affected and can still be processed. At the end of this step, a summary NHSACK is generated containing information about all the successes and failures of EDIFACT messages processing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    At this step EDIFACT has already been parsed and split into messages. Each message is translated into FHIR Bundles. Any error occurring at this step is logged, and if NHSACK is requested, proper information is set in it. Because of the error, no FHIR Bundle is created for that single message. Other messages are not affected and can still be processed. At the end of this step, a summary NHSACK is generated containing information about all the successes and failures of EDIFACT messages processing.
```

>     At this step an EDIFACT has already been parsed and split into messages. Each message is translated into a FHIR Bundle. Any error occurring at this step, is logged and if an NHSACK is requested, appropriate is set in it. Because of the error, no FHIR Bundle is created for that single message. Other messages are not affected and can still be processed. At the end of this step, a summary NHSACK is generated containing information about all the successes and failures of EDIFACT messages processing.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    At this step an EDIFACT has already been parsed and split into messages. Each message is translated into a FHIR Bundle. Any error occurring at this step, is logged and if an NHSACK is requested, appropriate information is set in it. Because of the error, no FHIR Bundle is created for that single message. Other messages are not affected and can still be processed. At the end of this step, a summary NHSACK is generated containing information about all the successes and failures of EDIFACT messages processing.
```

>     At this step an EDIFACT has already been parsed and split into messages. Each message is translated into a FHIR Bundle. Any error occurring at this step, is logged and if an NHSACK is requested, appropriate is set in it. Because of the error, no FHIR Bundle is created for that single message. Other messages are not affected and can still be processed. At the end of this step, a summary NHSACK is generated containing information about all the successes and failures of EDIFACT messages processing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    At this step an EDIFACT has already been parsed and split into messages. Each message is translated into a FHIR Bundle. Any error occurring at this step, is logged and if an NHSACK is requested, appropriate information is set in it. Because of the error, no FHIR Bundle is created for that single message. Other messages are not affected and can still be processed. At the end of this step, a summary NHSACK is generated containing information about all the successes and failures of EDIFACT messages processing.
```

>     At this step an EDIFACT has already been parsed and split into messages. Each message is translated into a FHIR Bundle. Any error occurring at this step, is logged and if an NHSACK is requested, appropriate is set in it. Because of the error, no FHIR Bundle is created for that single message. Other messages are not affected and can still be processed. At the end of this step, a summary NHSACK is generated containing information about all the successes and failures of EDIFACT messages processing.

Reviewer: "Any error occurring at this step is logged, and if an NHSACK is requested,"

3) Sending to `Outbound GP Queue`

>     All individual EDIFACT messages that have been successfully translated into FHIR are sent to `Outbound GP Queue`. If an error occurrs at this step, whole EDIFACT is rejected and it returns to the `Inbound MESH Queue` from where it will be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, message is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    All individual EDIFACT messages that have been successfully translated into FHIR are sent to `Outbound GP Queue`. If an error occurs at this step, the whole EDIFACT is rejected and it returns to the `Inbound MESH Queue` from where it will be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, the message is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required.
```

>     All individual EDIFACT messages that have been successfully translated into FHIR are sent to `Outbound GP Queue`. If an error occurrs at this step, whole EDIFACT is rejected and it returns to the `Inbound MESH Queue` from where it will be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, message is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    All individual EDIFACT messages that have been successfully translated into FHIR are sent to `Outbound GP Queue`. If an error occurrs at this step, the whole EDIFACT is rejected and will be returned to the `Inbound MESH Queue` to be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, the message is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required.
```

>     All individual EDIFACT messages that have been successfully translated into FHIR are sent to `Outbound GP Queue`. If an error occurs at this step, whole EDIFACT is rejected and it returns to the `Inbound MESH Queue` to be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, the EDIFACT is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    All individual EDIFACT messages that have been successfully translated into FHIR are sent to `Outbound GP Queue`. If an error occurs at this step, the whole EDIFACT is rejected and it returns to the `Inbound MESH Queue` to be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, the EDIFACT is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required.
```

4) Sending NHSACK to `Outbound MESH Queue`

>     All individual FHIR messages have been sent to the `Outbound GP Queue`. An NHSACK has been generated and is being sent to `Outbound MESH Queue`. If an error occurrs at this step, whole EDIFACT is rejected and it returns to the `Inbound MESH Queue` from where it will be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, message is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required. Since the message has been already put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates is been described in the [duplicates](#duplicates) section.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    All individual FHIR messages have been sent to the `Outbound GP Queue`. An NHSACK has been generated and is being sent to `Outbound MESH Queue`. If an error occurs at this step, the whole EDIFACT is rejected, and it returns to the `Inbound MESH Queue` from where it will be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, message is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required. Since the message has been already put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates has been described in the [duplicates](#duplicates) section.
```

>     All individual FHIR messages have been sent to the `Outbound GP Queue`. An NHSACK has been generated and is being sent to `Outbound MESH Queue`. If an error occurrs at this step, whole EDIFACT is rejected and it returns to the `Inbound MESH Queue` from where it will be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, message is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required. Since the message has been already put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates is been described in the [duplicates](#duplicates) section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    All individual FHIR messages have been sent to the `Outbound GP Queue`. An NHSACK has been generated and it will be sent to `Outbound MESH Queue`. If an error occurs at this step, the whole EDIFACT is rejected and will be returned to `Inbound MESH Queue` where it will be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, the message is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required. Since the message has been already put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates is described in the [duplicates](#duplicates) section.
```

>     All individual FHIR messages have been sent to the `Outbound GP Queue`. An NHSACK has been generated and is being sent to `Outbound MESH Queue`. If an error occurrs at this step, whole EDIFACT is rejected and it returns to the `Inbound MESH Queue` from where it will be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, message is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required. Since the message has been already put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates is been described in the [duplicates](#duplicates) section.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    All individual FHIR messages have been sent to the `Outbound GP Queue`. If an NHSACK was requested, it has been generated and it will be sent to `Outbound MESH Queue`. If an error occurs at this step, the whole EDIFACT is rejected and it will be returned to the `Inbound MESH Queue` where it will be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, message is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required. Since the message has been already put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates is described in the [duplicates](#duplicates) section.
```

>     All individual FHIR messages have been sent to the `Outbound GP Queue`. If an NHSACK was requested, it has been generated and sent to `Outbound MESH Queue`. If an error occurs at this step, the whole EDIFACT is rejected and it will be returned to the `Inbound MESH Queue` to be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, the EDIFACT is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required. Since the message has been already put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates is been described in the [duplicates](#duplicates) section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    All individual FHIR messages have been sent to the `Outbound GP Queue`. If an NHSACK was requested, it has been generated and sent to `Outbound MESH Queue`. If an error occurs at this step, the whole EDIFACT is rejected and it will be returned to the `Inbound MESH Queue` to be picked up again until MQ max retry value is reached. After that, the EDIFACT is placed on the Dead Letter Queue and manual intervention is required. Since the message has been already put on `Inbound MESH Queue`, it will be processed again causing duplicates to appear on the `Outbound GP Queue`. Handling duplicates is described in the [duplicates](#duplicates) section.
```

### Logging and debugging

> Adapter provides detailed logs on processing each EDIFACT. Each EDIFACT that goes through the adapter is given a new randomly generated `CorrelationId`. This value is available in every log line that is created while processing that EDIFACT and also as an AMQP header (check [here](#outbound-gp-queue-specification)) on the `Outbound GP Queue`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Adaptor provides detailed logs while processing each EDIFACT. Each EDIFACT that goes through the adapter is given a new randomly generated `CorrelationId`. This value is available in every log line that is created while processing that EDIFACT and also as an AMQP header (check [here](#outbound-gp-queue-specification)) on the `Outbound GP Queue`.
```

### Duplicates

> In rare cases, the adaptor can produce duplicate messages on the `Outbound GP Queue`. It is GP Supplier's responsibility to identify and handle duplicates when fetching messages from the queue. The AMQP message `Checksum` header should be used to identifiy duplicates (see [Outbound GP Queue specification](#outbound-gp-queue-specification)).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In rare cases, the adaptor can produce duplicate messages on the `Outbound GP Queue`. It is GP Supplier's responsibility to identify and handle duplicates when fetching messages from the queue. The AMQP message `Checksum` header should be used to identify duplicates (see [Outbound GP Queue specification](#outbound-gp-queue-specification)).
```

## Integrating with the adaptor

> When using the adaptor, GP Suppllier will receive medical reports on the `Outbound GP Queue` (AMQP 1.0) in form of a [FHIR DSTU3](https://digital.nhs.uk/developer/guides-and-documentation/api-technologies-at-nhs-digital#fhir) Bundle resources. Examples can be found [here](#examples)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When using the adaptor, the GP Supplier will receive medical reports on the `Outbound GP Queue` (AMQP 1.0) in the form of a [FHIR DSTU3](https://digital.nhs.uk/developer/guides-and-documentation/api-technologies-at-nhs-digital#fhir) Bundle resources. Examples can be found [here](#examples)
```

> When using the adaptor, GP Suppllier will receive medical reports on the `Outbound GP Queue` (AMQP 1.0) in form of a [FHIR DSTU3](https://digital.nhs.uk/developer/guides-and-documentation/api-technologies-at-nhs-digital#fhir) Bundle resources. Examples can be found [here](#examples)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When using the adaptor, the GP Supplier will receive medical reports on the `Outbound GP Queue` (AMQP 1.0) in the form of [FHIR DSTU3](https://digital.nhs.uk/developer/guides-and-documentation/api-technologies-at-nhs-digital#fhir) Bundle resources. Examples can be found [here](#examples)
```

> When using the adaptor, the GP Supplier will receive medical reports on the `Outbound GP Queue` (AMQP 1.0) in the form of a [FHIR DSTU3](https://digital.nhs.uk/developer/guides-and-documentation/api-technologies-at-nhs-digital#fhir) Bundle resources. Examples can be found [here](#examples)

Reviewer: Similar to before, "FHIR STU 3" rather than "FHIR DSTU3"

### Outbound GP Queue specification

The `Outbound GP Queue` from where the FHIR-formatted medical reports can be fetched from is an AMQP 1.0 queue. The payload of the queue message is the FHIR Bundle resource accompanied with custom headers:

> - `CorrelationId` - an unique identifier assigned for a given inbound EDIFACT message that can be used to trace down message processing and issues in adaptor logs. Keep in mind that a single EDIFACT can contain multiple messages, which will produce multiple queue messages having the same `CorrelationId`. Example: `83035310E0B54283A5242C8EC9CA5FD6`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `CorrelationId` - a unique identifier assigned for a given inbound EDIFACT message that can be used to trace message processing and issues in adaptor logs. Keep in mind that a single EDIFACT can contain multiple messages, which will produce multiple queue messages having the same `CorrelationId`. Example: `83035310E0B54283A5242C8EC9CA5FD6`
```

## Configuration

> All configuration options can be found in the [application.yml](/src/main/resources/application.yml) file. The adaptor reads its configuration from environment variables ot override the defaults. The following sections describe the environment variables used to configure the adaptor. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All configuration options can be found in the [application.yml](/src/main/resources/application.yml) file. The adaptor reads its configuration from environment variables to override the defaults. The following sections describe the environment variables used to configure the adaptor. 
```
